.TH pnetstat 8 "28 Dec 2006" "Parallels" "Containers"
.SH NAME
pnetstat \- display network traffic statistics for servers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
pnetstat [\fB-v\fR <\fIid\fR>] [\fB-c\fR <\fIclass\fR>] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-r\fR]
[\fB-h\fR] [\fB-t\fR <\fIct\fR|\fIvm\fR|\fIall\fR>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The utility displays incoming and outcoming traffic for servers for each defined
network class. The output is grouped by server IDs. The network classes are
described in the /etc/sysconfig/vz-scripts/networks_classes file. If no options
are specified the network statistics for all running servers is printed.
.PP
Note that for the ID of 0, the traffic of the HS (the host server
itself) is shown. The figures for HS does not include servers traffic.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-v\fR <\fIid\fR>"
Display statistics only for the servers with the given \fIid\fR.
.IP "\fB-c\fR <\fIclass\fR>"
Display statistics only for the given network \fIclass\fR.
.IP "\fB-a\fR
Display all classes (16).
.IP "\fB-r\fR
Round off the statistics figures from bytes to K(b), M(b) or G(b).
.IP "\fB-t\fR <\fIct\fR|\fIvm\fR|\fIall\fR>
Display statistics only for Containers, virtual machines or both.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Print short usage information.
.SH RETURN CODE
Returns 0 upon success.
.SH EXAMPLES
To display statistics for all servers:
\f(CW
.nh
.nf
    pnetstat
\fR
.hy
.fi
.PP
To display statistics for Containers 101 and 102 for network classes 1 and 2:
\f(CW
.nh
.nf
    pnetstat -v 101 -v 102 -c 1 -c 2
\fR
.hy
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR networks_classes (5).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2017, Parallels International GmbH. All rights reserved.
