.TH ve-veconfig 5 "October 2009" "@PRODUCT_NAME_LONG@"
.SH NAME
ve-veconfig \- vzctl helper script for setting various CT parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/sysconfig/vz-scripts/ve-veconfig
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBve-veconfig\fR script is called by \fBvzctl(8)\fR. Its purpose is
to set various parameters for given CT.
.SH OPTIONS
Parameters  are  passed to the script in the form of environment variables.
The following variables can be defined:
.IP "\fBHOSTNM\fR
Sets CT hostname to be \fIname\fR.
This is done by modifying CT's \f(CW/etc/hosts\fR and
\f(CW/etc/sysconfig/network\fR (in RedHat or RedHat-like based CT) or
\f(CW/etc/rc.config\fR (in SuSE-based CT).
.IP "\fBSEARCHDOMAIN\fR"
Sets CT resolver's search list for host-name lookup.
This option modifies CT's \f(CW/etc/resolv.conf\fR.
.IP "\fBNAMESERVER\fR
Sets CT name server IP address.
This option modifies CT's \f(CW/etc/resolv.conf\fR.
.IP "\fBUSERPW\fR \fIuser:password\fR"
Sets the \fIpassword\fR for \fIuser\fR, adding \fIuser\fR if it does not
already exists. Several \fB--userpasswd\fR options can be given.
.P
.IP "\fBIS_CRYPTED\fR \fIuser:password\fR"
\fBve-veconfig\fR assumes that the passwords specified in \fBUSERPW\fR are encoded.
.P
.IP "\fBDIST\fR"
Name of the distribution this CT runs (like \fBredhat-7.1\fR). Used for script
to do distribution-dependent setup.
.P
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The script is expected to return 0 on success, any other return code
will be printed by \fBvzctl\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vzctl (8),
.BR resolv.conf (5).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1999-@LAST_COPYRIGHT_YEAR@, @COPYRIGHT_OWNER@. All rights reserved.
