.\" $Id$
.TH ve.conf 5 "October 2009" "OpenVZ"
.SH NAME
ve.conf \- configuration file for a Container.
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/vz/conf/XXX.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a configuration file for a CT. It is stored as
\fB/etc/vz/conf/\fR\fIXXX\fB.conf\fR, where \fIXXX\fR
is the ID of the given CT.
.PP
Configuration file consists of lines arrayed in a column.
.PP
\fBPARAMETER\fR="\fIvalue\fR"
.PP
All parameter names and values are case-sensitive. Quotes surrounding a \fIvalue\fR are required if the value contains spaces, and are optional otherwise.
Extra spaces are not allowed. All unrecognized lines will be ignored.
.PP
Please note that the file is created/modified by the \fBvzctl(8)\fR command with the \fIset --save\fR arguments, therefore changes to this file made otherwise than by \fBvzctl(8)\fR can be lost during the next \fBvzctl\fR run.
.PP
The meaning of each parameter is described in \fBvzctl(8)\fR, so here only
the appropriate \fBvzctl set\fR option is given.
.SS Miscellaneous parameters
.IP \fBONBOOT\fR="\fByes|no\fR"
Specifies whether this CT will be started during the system boot. The default value is \fBno\fR, meaning the CT will not be started if the \fBONBOOT\fR parameter is omitted.
Corresponds to the \fB--onboot\fR option.
.IP \fBBOOTORDER\fR="\fInumber\fR"
Specifies the CT boot order priority. Corresponds to the
\fB--bootorder\fR option.
.IP \fBOSTEMPLATE\fR="\fItmpl_name[/version]\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--pkgset\fR option.
.IP \fBTEMPLATES\fR="\fIapp_name[/version]\ ...\fR"
This is a list of the templates installed inside a CT by the
\fBvzpkgadd\fR command.
.IP \fBVE_ROOT\fR="\fIdirectory\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--root\fR option.
.IP \fBVE_PRIVATE\fR="\fIdirectory\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--private\fR option.
.IP \fBDISABLED\fR="\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--disabled\fR option.
.IP \fBORIGIN_SAMPLE\fR="\fIname\fR"
Name of the CT sample the CT is based on.
.IP \fBCONFIG_CUSTOMIZED\fR="\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Set to \fByes\fR if the CT configuration file has been modified.
.SS Resource management parameters
.IP \fBNUMPROC\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numproc\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMFILE\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numfile\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMFLOCK\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numflock\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMPTY\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numpty\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMSIGINFO\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numsiginfo\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMTCPSOCK\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numtcpsock\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMOTHERSOCK\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numothersock\fR options.
.IP \fBPRIVVMPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--privvmpages\fR options.
.IP \fBVMMGUARPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--vmguarpages\fR options.
.IP \fBOOMGUARPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--oomguarpages\fR options.
.IP \fBLOCKEDPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--lockedpages\fR options.
.IP \fBSHMPAGES\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--shmpages\fR options.
.IP \fBKMEMSIZE\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--kmemsize\fR options.
.IP \fBTCPSNDBUF\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--tcpsndbuf\fR options.
.IP \fBTCPRCVBUF\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--tcprcvbuf\fR options.
.IP \fBOTHERSOCKBUF\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--othersockbuf\fR options.
.IP \fBDGRAMRCVBUF\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--dgramrcvbuf\fR options.
.IP \fBDCACHESIZE\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--dcachesize\fR options.
.IP \fBNUMIPTENT\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--numiptent\fR options.
.IP \fBCPUUNITS\fR
Corresponds to the \fB--cpuunits\fR option.
.IP \fBDISKSPACE\fR="\fIsoftlimit\fR[:\fIhardlimit\fR]"
Corresponds to the \fB--diskspace\fR parameter.
.IP \fBDISKINODES\fR="\fIsoftlimit\fR[:\fIhardlimit\fR]"
Corresponds to the \fB--diskinodes\fR parameter.
.IP \fBQUOTATIME\fR="\fIseconds\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--quotatime\fR parameter.
.IP \fBQUOTAUGIDLIMIT\fR="\fInum\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--quotaugidlimit\fR parameter.
.IP \fBNOATIME\fR="\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--noatime\fR option.
.IP \fBRATE\fR="\fIinterface:class:rate\fR\ [\fIinterface:class:rate\fR\ ...]"
Corresponds to the \fB--rate\fR option.
.IP \fBRATEBOUND\fR="\fIyse|no\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--ratebound\fR option.
.IP \fBCAPABILITY\fR="\fIcapname\fR:\fBon\fR|\fBoff\fR\ [\fIcapname:\fBon\fR|\fBoff\fR\ ...]"
Corresponds to the \fB--capability\fR option
.SS Network related parameters
.IP \fBIP_ADDRESS\fR="\fIaddress\ [address]\fR"
Specifies the \fIaddress\fR the CT will be assigned. Several addresses
are divided by spaces.
Corresponds to the \fB--ipadd\fR option.
.IP \fBHOSTNAME\fR="\fIname\fR"
Corresponds to the \fB--hostname\fR option.
.IP \fBNAMESERVER\fR="\fIip\fR\ [\fIip\fR]"
Corresponds to the \fB--nameserver\fR option. Several name server addresses
are set off by spaces.
.IP \fBSEARCHDOMAIN\fR="\fIdomain\fR\ [\fIdomain\fR]"
Corresponds to the \fB--searchdomain\fR option. Several search domains
are separated by spaces.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vzctl (8),
.BR vz (5).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2015 Parallels IP Holdings GmbH. All rights reserved.
