.TH vz-net_add 5 "October 2009" "@PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@"
.SH NAME
vz-net_add \- Container's script for adding an IP alias
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/sysconfig/vz-scripts/vz-net_add
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBvz-net_add\fR script is called by \fBvzctl(8)\fR. The script can be any
executable file and is usually a shell script.
.P
This script adds source routing for given IP, by executing command
"\fB/sbin/ip\fR route add \fIaddr\fR dev venet0 src \fIsrcaddr\fR",
where \fIaddr\fR is IP address given, and \fIsrcaddr\fR is first local
non-loopback address.
.P
Also, it adds public ARP records for given IP on all interfaces excluding
those with LOOPBACK or NOARP flags set. It does so with the command
"\fB/sbin/ip\fR neigh add proxy \fIaddr\fR dev \fIdevice\fR", where
\fRaddr\fR is IP address and \fIdevice\fR is network interface device name
(like \fIeth0\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
Parameters are passed to the script in the form of environment
variables. The following variables can be defined:
.IP VEID 12
Numeric id of CT.
.IP IP_ADDR 12
IP address(es) to add as an alias to CT. Several addresses are divided
by space.
.IP VE_STATE 12
This (optional) variable is telling the state of CT and can be one of the
following: \fIrunning\fR, \fIstarting\fR, \fIstopping\fR, \fIstopped\fR.
.P
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The script is expected to return 0 on success, any other return code
will be printed by \fBvzctl\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vzctl (8).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2017, Parallels International GmbH. All rights reserved.
