.TH vz 5 "February 2011" "@PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@"
.SH NAME
vz \- global @PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@ configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/vz/vz
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the global configuration file for @PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@.
It consists of lines in the form
.PP
\fBPARAMETER\fR="\fIvalue\fR"
.PP
All parameter names and values are case-sensitive.
Quotes surrounding \fIvalue\fR are required if value contains spaces, and
are optional otherwise. Extra spaces are not allowed. All unrecognized lines
will be ignored.
.SS Global parameters
.IP \fBVIRTUOZZO\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR
This parameter is used by \f(CW/etc/init.d/vz\fR script.
In case it is \fBnot\fR set to \fByes\fR, nothing will be done
to boot up @PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@ on this node.
.IP "\fBACTIONLOGDIR\fR=\fIdirectory\fR"
Set the directory to write action log files to. Action log files are needed
for \fBvzctl\fR/\fBvzcoll\fR interaction, so \fBvzcoll\fR will know
what actions are done on CTs.
.IP "\fBLOCKDIR\fR=\fIdirectory\fR"
Set the directory to put lock files to. This parameter is used by both
\fBvzctl\fR(8) and \fBhwcoll\fR(8).
.IP \fBREMOVEMIGRATED\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR
Remove private area on migrating \fByes\fR|\fBno\fR
This option is not supported for ploop-based CT.
.IP \fBVE_ENVIRONMENT\fR="\fINAME\fR=\fIVALUE\fR\ [\fINAME\fR=\fIVALUE\fR\ ...]"
Environment variables to be set for CT init.
.IP "\fBHTTP_PROXY\fR=[\fIprotocol\fB://\fR]\fIhost\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]"
Proxy server configuration.
.IP "\fBUSE_NET_HWCSUM\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Enable use of hardware checksumming on venet interfaces.
In case all the hardware network interfaces in the system support scatter-gather
and hw checksumming features it is recommended to set \fBUSE_NET_HWCSUM\fR to
\fByes\fR.
If \fBUSE_NET_HWCSUM\fR is absent or has a value different from
\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR then it is autoconfigured
(minimal common subset of capabilities among physical adapters on node).
.IP "\fBUSE_NET_TSO\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Enable use of hardware tcp segmentation offload on venet interfaces.
If \fBUSE_NET_TSO\fR is absent or has a value different from
\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR then it is autoconfigured
(minimal common subset of capabilities among physical adapters on node).
.IP "\fBUSE_NET_RPS\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Enables or disables use of Receive packet steering on venet and veth interfaces.
RPS is enabled by default.
.IP "\fBUSE_VENET_MASK\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Enable the assignment of network masks to Containers operating in the venet0
mode (\fBno\fR by default).
.IP "\fBGOLDEN_IMAGE\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Enable the use of Golden Images for creating Containers (\fByes\fR by default).
A Golden Image is an extended template cache that includes an OS template and
one or more application templates.
.IP "\fBVE_PARALLEL\fR=\fBnumber\fR"
Sets a number of Containers to start simultaneously on node boot. If not
specified, the number is calculated based on node's CPU power.
This parameter is used by the \f(CW/etc/init.d/vz\fR script.
.IP "\fBVE_STOP_MODE\fR=\fBsuspend\fR|\fBstop\fR"
Specifies an action to be performed on Containers on node shutdown or reboot.
This parameter is used by the \f(CW/etc/init.d/vz\fR script.
.br
 \(bu \fBsuspend\fR - Suspend Containers on shutdown (default),
.br
 \(bu \fBstop\fR - Stop Containers.
.SS Validation parameters
.IP \fBVE_VALIDATE_ACTION\fR=\fBnone\fR|\fBwarning\fR|\fBerror\fR|\fBfix\fR
Validation of CT parameters on start. Possible values are:
.br
 \(bu \fBnone\fR - do not validate,
.br
 \(bu \fBwarning\fR - display warning and continue,
.br
 \(bu \fBerror\fR - exit with error,
.br
 \(bu \fBfix\fR - fix invalid parameters and continue.
.SS Logging parameters
.IP "\fBLOGGING\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Enables or disables logging. This parameter can be set to \fByes\fR or
\fBno\fR, default is \fByes\fR.
.IP \fBLOGFILE\fR=\fIfile\fR
Sets location of log file, default is \f(CR/var/log/vzctl.log\fR.
.IP "\fBLOG_LEVEL\fR=\fInumber\fR"
Set the logging level. The more the \fInumber\fR is, the more information will be
written to a log file. Default value is \fB0\fR. Some useful values are:
.br
 \(bu \fB0\fR - actions/errors of vzctl on start, stop, mount, umount, create, destroy,
.br
 \(bu \fB1\fR - logging helper comands vzctl running in /usr/libexec/libvzctl/scripts,
.br
 \(bu \fB2\fR - logging create action events, pool, version used on create action,
.br
 \(bu \fB3\fR - logging vzctl command line.
.SS Disk quota parameters
.IP \fBDISK_QUOTA\fR=\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR
In case the value of this parameter is set to \fBno\fR, all disk
quota operations are disabled.
.SS Network interface parameters
.IP \fBVE_ROUTE_SRC_DEV\fR="\fIdevice\fR"
This parameter specifies the network device name which IP address will be
used as the source IP. This is helpful in case more than one network
interface is configured on HN and there is a need to specify the source
IP address. Default is the first device in the network device list.
.SS Network traffic parameters
.IP \fBTRAFFIC_SHAPING\fR="\fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Traffic shaping allows limiting bandwidth consumed by Containers.
If it is set to \fByes\fR then limitations will be turned on. Default is
\fBno\fR.
.IP \fBBANDWIDTH\fR="\fIdev\fB\ [\fIdev\fB\ ...]"
List of network devices for traffic shaping. If no value is given, the device will be automatically determined by the default route.
.IP \fBTOTALRATE\fR="\fIdev\fR:\fIclass\fR:\fIKbits\fR\fI\fR"
Specifies bound rate for network devices.
.IP \fBRATE\fR="\fIdev\fR:\fIclass\fR:\fIKbits\fR\fI\fR"
Specifies guaranteed rate for network devices.
.IP \fBRATEMPU\fR="\fIdev\fR:\fIclass\fR[:\fIbytes\fR]"
Specifies Minimum Packet Unit for traffic shaping.
If packet size is lower then MPU bytes, it will consume MPU HTB tokens.
This is to limit packet rate (packet rate = \fBTOTALRATE\fR / \fBRATEMPU\fR).
If MPU value (bytes) is omitted then VZ_TC_DEFAULT_MPU (1000) is used.
If dev:class is not in \fBRATEMPU\fR then packet rate is not limited for them.
.SS Disk IO limit parameters
.IP \fBVZ_TOOLS_BCID\fR="\fIID\fR"
Enables disk IO limits for backup, restore, and migration operations. Make sure that no Container with the specified \fIID\fR exists on the Node.
.IP \fBVZ_TOOLS_IOLIMIT\fR="\fIlimit\fR"
Sets the disk IO \fIlimit\fR for backup, restore, and migration operations, in bytes per second.
.IP \fBVZ_TOOLS_MEMLIMIT\fR="\fIlimit\fR"
Sets the memory \fIlimit\fR for backup, restore, and migration operations, in bytes.
.SS Template parameters
.IP \fBTEMPLATE\fR="\fIdirectory\fR"
Value of this parameter is the \fIdirectory\fR in which all
the files and directories shared between all CTs are stored.
.SS Defaults for CT
Below parameters are defaults for CT, and gets overwritten by parameters in
\fBve.conf\fR(5) CT configuration file.
.IP \fBVE_ROOT\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Value of this parameter is the \fIdirectory\fR which serves as CT root
mount point. Value must contain literal string \fB$VEID\fR, which
will be substituted with actual numeric CT ID.
.IP \fBVE_PRIVATE\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Value of this parameter is the \fIdirectory\fR in which all the
files and directories specific to that CT are stored. Value must contain
literal string \fB$VEID\fR, which will be substituted with actual numeric
CT ID.
.IP \fBCONFIGFILE\fR=\fIname\fR
Specifies default configuration file for create action, corresponds to
\fB--config\fR option of \fBvzctl create\fR.
.PP
Any other parameter that appears in per-CT configuration file \fBve.conf\fR(5)
can be also set here. Still, it is recommended to keep \fBTEMPLATE\fR,
\fBVE_PRIVATE\fR and \fBVE_ROOT\fR in this configuration files, and all the
other CT-related parameters in per-CT configuration files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vzctl (8),
.BR vzpkg (8),
.BR ve.conf (5).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2017, Parallels International GmbH. All rights reserved.
