.\" $Id$
.TH vzcfgconvert 8 "October 2009" "@PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@"
.SH NAME
vzcfgconvert \- convert the CT configuration file from Virtuozzo
\fI2.0.2\fR to \fI3.0.0\fR or from \fI2.6.2\fR to \fI3.0.0\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
vzcfgconvert [\fIveid\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility converts the CT configuration file from the old \fI2.0.2\fR or \fI2.6.2\fR
Virtuozzo to the latest Virtuozzo update of \fI3.0.0\fR format and saves the updated
configuration file. After upgrading a Hardware Node or migrating a Container
from Virtuozzo 2.0.2 Hardware Node to a Virtuozzo 3.0.0 Hardware
Node, the Container configuration file remains in the old format.
@PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@ can use the old format files to start and run the Container. However, for validation and scaling utilities the file has to be in the
Virtuozzo \fI3.0.0\fR format.
.SS \fBConversion\ formulas from 2.0.2 to 2.6.2\fR
kmemsize.bar = old.kmemsize.bar * 1.44
.br
kmemsize.lim = old.kmemsize.lim * 1.44
.br
kmem = kmemsize.bar / PAGE_SIZE
.br
vmguarpages.bar = 0.002754 * kmem * kmem + 8.22 * kmem - 503.53
.br
vmguarpages.lim = 2147483647
.br
k = (classid != 1) ? max(3.67, old.totvmpages.bar / 71429) : max(2.33,
old.totvmpages.bar / 58777)
.br
privvmpages.bar = vmguarpages.bar * k
.br
privvmpages.lim = vmguarpages.bar * k * 1.11
.br
k = (classid != 1) ? k = 10.67 : k = 1.5
.br
shmpages.bar = shmpages.lim = old.ipcshmpages.bar + old.anonshpages.bar) * k
.br
physpages.bar = 0
.br
physpages.lim = 2147483647
.br
oomguarpages.bar = old.oomguar.bar
.br
oomguarpages.lim = 2147483647
.br
numtcpsock.bar = old.numsock.bar
.br
numtcpsock.lim = old.numsock.lim
.br
tcpsndbuf.bar = old.tcpsendbuf.bar
.br
tcpsndbuf.lim = old.tcpsendbuf.lim * 2
.br
tcprcvbuf.bar = old.tcprcvbuf.bar
.br
tcprcvbuf.lim = old.tcprcvbuf.lim * 2
.br
othersockbuf.bar = old.unixsockbuf.bar
.br
othersockbuf.lim = old.unixsockbuf.lim * 2.67
.br
dgramrcvbuf.bar = old.sockrcvbuf.bar
.br
dgramrcvbuf.lim = old.sockrcvbuf.lim
.br
numothersock.bar = old.numunixsock.bar * 2.67
.br
numothersock.lim = old.numunixsock.lim * 2.67
.br
numfile.bar = numfile.lim = old.numproc.bar * 20.48
.br
avnumproc.bar = avnumproc.lim = kmemsize.bar / 67584
.br
dcachesize.bar = dcachesize.lim = numfile.bar * 512
.SS \fBConversion\ formulas from 2.6.2 to 3.0.0\fR
kmemside.bar *= 1.2
.br
kmemside.lim *= 1.2
.br
numfile.bar *= 1.6
.br
numfile.lim *= 1.6
.br
dcachesize.lim *= 2
.SH BUGS
Conversation should be done once, otherwise result can be inconsistent.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Normally, the exit status is 0. On error, the exit status is 1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ve.conf (5),
.BR vzcfgvalidate (8).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2015 Parallels IP Holdings GmbH. All rights reserved.
