.\" $Id$
.TH vzlist 8 "January 2012" "@PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@"
.SH NAME
vzlist \- CT listing utility.
.SH SYNOPSIS
vzlist [\fB-a\fR|\fB-S\fR] [-H] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,\fIfield\fR...]] \
[\fB-s\fR [\fB-\fR]\fIfield\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhost_pattern\fR] \
[\fB-N\fR \fIname_pattern\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdescr_pattern\fR] \
[\fB-i\fR \fIifname\fR] [\fIctid\fR [\fIctid\fR...] | \fB-1\fR]
.PP
vzlist \fB-L\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBvzlist\fR utility lists CTs. By default only running CTs are listed.
With \fIctid\fR specified, only specified CTs are listed,
\fIctid\fR of \fB-1\fR is used to output CT IDs only, one per line.
.PP
For the fields that can have many values (e.g. \fBip\fR or \fBnetif\fR),
all the values are displayed only for the last (i.e. leftmost) column;
otherwise, only the first value is shown.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-H\fR, \fB--no-header\fR"
Suppress displaying the header.
.IP "\fB-j\fR, \fB--json\fR"
Output in JSON format.
.IP "\fB-a\fR, \fB--all\fR"
List all CTs.
.IP "\fB-S\fR, \fB--stopped\fR"
List only stopped CTs.
.IP "\fB-n\fR, \fB--name\fR"
Display CT names (instead of hostnames).
.IP "\fB-o\fR, \fB--output\fR \fIfield[,\fIfield\fR...]"
Display only the specified \fIfield\fR(s).
.IP "\fB-s\fR, \fB--sort\fR \fIfield\fR"
Sort by the value of \fIfield\fR (possible arguments are the same
as for \fB-o\fR). The \fB-\fR before the field name means sorting
in the reverse order.
.SS Output filters
List of CTs can be further filtered using the following options.
For patterns (except for \fB--netif\fR) one can use the same wildcards
as in shell (i.e. \fB*\fR, \fB?\fR, and \fB[]\fR).
Note: to avoid expansion of wildcards by the shell, one have to escape
the pattern by either putting it into single quotes (like \fB'a*a'\fR)
or by adding a backslash before the wildcard character (like \fBa\\*a\fR).
.IP "\fB-h\fR, \fB--hostname\fR \fIpattern\fR"
List only those CTs whose hostname matches the \fIpattern\fR.
.IP "\fB-N\fR, \fB--name_filter\fR \fIpattern\fR"
List only CTs whose names match the \fIpattern\fR.
.IP "\fB-d\fR, \fB--description\fR \fIdesc_pattern\fR"
List only those CTs whose descriptions match the \fIdesc_pattern\fR.
.IP "\fB-i\fR, \fB--netif\fR \fIhost_ifname\fR"
List only CTs whose host interface names match the \fIhost_ifname\fR pattern.
Note that you can not use wildcards with this option.
.SS Possible fields
.IP "\fB-L\fR, \fB--list\fR"
List all the fields that can be used for both output
(\fB-o\fR, \fB--output\fR) and the sorting order
(\fB-s\fR, \fB--sort\fR).

For the user beancounter fields, if suffix is not specified, current usage
(a.k.a. "held") value is show. One can also use the following suffixes:
.RS
.TP
.B .m
maxheld
.TP
.B .b
barrier
.TP
.B .l
limit
.TP
.B .f
fail counter
.PP
For the disk quota fields, if suffix is not specified, current usage
is shown. One can also use the following suffixes:
.TP
.B .s
soft limit
.TP
.B .h
hard limit
.RE
.SH RETURN CODE
Returns 0 upon success.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2017, Parallels International GmbH. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Virtuozzo International GmbH. All rights reserved.
