.\" $Id$
.TH vznetstat 8 "October 2009" "@PRODUCT_NAME_LONG@"
.SH NAME
vznetstat \- display network traffic statistics per CT.
.SH SYNOPSIS
vznetstat \fI[-4|-6]\fR \fI[-v ctid]\fR \fI[-c class]\fR \fI[-a]\fR \fI[-r]\fR \fI[-h]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The utility displays incoming and outcoming traffic for Containers for each defined network class. The output is grouped by CT ID. The network classes are described in the /etc/sysconfig/vz-scripts/networks_classes file. If no options are specified the network statistics for all running Containers is printed.
.PP
Note that for the CT ID of 0, the traffic of the HS (the host server
itself) is shown. The figures for HS does not include CT traffic.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-v\fR \fIctid\fR"
Display statistics only for the CTs with the given \fIctid\fR.
.IP "\fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR"
Display statistics only for the given network \fIclass\fR.
.IP "\fB-a\fR
Display all classes (16).
.IP "\fB-r\fR
Round off the statistics figures from bytes to K(b), M(b) or G(b).
.IP \fB-h\fR
Print short usage information.
.IP \fB-4\fR
Display ipv4 statistics.
.IP \fB-6\fR
Display ipv6 statistics.
.SH RETURN CODE
Returns 0 upon success.
.SH EXAMPLES
To display statistics for all CTs:
\f(CW
.nh
.nf
    vznetstat
\fR
.hy
.fi
.PP
To display statistics for CTs 101 and 102 for network classes 1 and 2:
\f(CW
.nh
.nf
    vznetstat -v 101 -v 102 -c 1 -c 2
\fR
.hy
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR networks_classes (5).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1999-@LAST_COPYRIGHT_YEAR@, @COPYRIGHT_OWNER@. All rights reserved.
