.\" $Id$
.TH vzsplit 8 "October 2009" "@PRODUCT_NAME_SHORT@"
.SH NAME
vzsplit \- generate a sample CT configuration file with a certain set of system resource control parameters.
.SH SYNOPSIS
vzsplit [\fB-n\fR \fInumve\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIconf_name\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIswapsize\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBvzsplit\fR utility is used to split the host server into equal parts.
It generates a full set of system resource control parameters for the given
number of Containers. The values are calculated from the total physical memory of
the host server the utility runs on and the number of Containers the host server\
shall be able to run even if the given number of Containers consume all resources
available.
Without any option \fBvzsplit\fR prompts for the desired number of Containers and outputs the resulting resource control parameters to the screen.
If there is not enough system resources to run the specified number of
CTs, an appropriate message is shown and the sample configuration file is not generated.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n\fR \fInumve\fR
Specify the number of CTs.
.TP
\fB-f\fR \fIconf_name\fR
Specify the configuration file name. The program output is placed to
/etc/vz/conf/ve-\fIconf_name\fR.conf-sample.
.TP
\fB-s\fR \fIswapsize\fR
Specify the swap size in Kbytes. If not provided in the option, the swap size will be read from /proc/meminfo.
.TP
\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR
Specify path where CTs will reside. By default /vz used.
.TP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBvzsplit\fR returns 0 upon a sucessful execution. If anything goes wrong, it
returns 1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ve.conf (5).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1999-2015 Parallels IP Holdings GmbH. All rights reserved.

